Welcome to Advanced Collection Views
and Building Custom Layouts.
I'm Luke Hiesterman.
I'm an engineer on the
iOS Frameworks team.
And let me tell you,
in less than 24 hours since we
introduced Collection View yesterday,
the feedback has just been overwhelming.
And I can't tell you how
excited that makes all of us
to share with you the keys,
the more advanced keys to
Collection Views so we can send
all of you on your way to being
Collection View experts and
creating just astounding UIs.
So that's what this talk
is going to be about,
the deeper keys.
To get us through that,
we're going to start by talking
about some architectural
things in UI Collection View.
That's going to be kind
of the meat of this talk,
the drier part.
But get us all on the same page in
terms of how UI Collection View works,
its terminology, and the workings of
things under the hood,
so that we can go forward.
And from there,
we'll talk about how we can really
push the UI Collection View flow
layout in great directions.
We got a taste of this yesterday,
but we'll see really the kind of
things that we can do with it.
And for those of you who went back
to your hotels or your homes last
night and pulled out a sketch pad
and started writing your mockup
of the next great American layout,
we're going to talk to you
about the API that makes it
easy to write custom layouts.
There we go.
Build your own layout.
So to begin,
let's talk about architecture.
Part of this is going to be review from
what you learned yesterday if you went
to the intro to collection views talk.
But we want to make sure we're
on the same page for dealing
with the advanced concept.
So let's talk about the views
that are in a collection view.
There are three of them.
Most of you hopefully remember them.
They are cells.
They are supplementary views.
And they are decoration views.
And let's take a minute to make
sure that we're really familiar
with these sort of two new terms,
supplementary view and decoration view.
Because that's not something we've
dealt with before in the kit.
And we want to make sure we
understand what they are and how
they're distinct from each other.
So this is a UI that you've probably
seen before from the previous talk.
And it has supplementary views as
denoted by the Paris and Telluride
markers that are metadata.
about these sections.
Now, that's sort of what's interesting
about supplementary views.
They have metadata about your content,
but they're not the content itself.
But what's important about them is
they do take data from the data source,
and in that sense, they are data-driven.
Conversely, if you look at the
background of this thing,
that little shelf UI,
we consider that a decoration view.
And the decoration view is fully owned
and defined by the layout object.
It does not interact with the data source
of your collection view in any way.
The data source will not be
asked to provide any data.
And the layout defines this
completely within its own world.
So in that way,
decoration views are layout
driven as opposed to supplementary
views which are data driven.
The layout defines support
for a supplementary view,
but the heart of the view is
going to be the data that is
provided by the data source.
So we have this thing,
this other class that was
alluded to in our previous talk,
which is UI Collection View Layout
Attributes.
And this is the thing
we want to understand.
Because it's a very complex thing.
If you're customizing layouts,
this is the object that carries
information from a layout to a collection
view and ultimately gets applied
to all the views in the collection view.
So let's talk about that relationship.
We have the basic class diagram
that you're already familiar with.
And the layout attributes is this
little tool that the layout is going
to use to define itself as a layout.
Each of the views that any
game is going to use is going
to be defined as a layout.
And if any given layout wants to layout,
it will define the layout
information in terms of instances of
UI Collection View Layout Attributes.
One instance per view.
And those are going to go from
the layout handed over each
instance to the collection view.
And the collection view is going
to use those instances which
define how to layout a view to
literally go layout those views.
It will apply the layout
attributes in a given layout
attribute instance to a view.
So what are the attributes that
are contained in this object?
First and foremost and very simply,
we have center and size.
You can define where this thing
is on screen and how big it is.
We also have a convenience accessor
that defines both of these,
which is frame.
You can define it in terms of frame
if you're used to that in UIView.
We also have alpha.
If you want to control
the opacity of your views,
you can put that in a layout attribute
and it will be applied to the views.
We can apply a transform.
This is actually a 3D
transform to any of the views.
And that will get applied as well.
Now,
one thing you might notice is now that
we have a transform on these views,
they overlap each other.
And you might say, well,
they overlap sort of top to bottom now,
but I might want the opposite.
I might want the views on top to
overlap the things on bottom as
though it was laid out bottom up.
And we have a way for you to specify
how things are stacked if they,
in fact, overlap.
And we do that via zindex
property on the layout attributes.
The way that works is any zindex,
any view, with its zindex is guaranteed
to be layout above a view whose
zindex is lower than it and
below one that's greater than it.
So by default,
layout attribute zindex is zero.
But if you specify one to be, say,
zindex of one,
then it is guaranteed to be above all
of the views whose zindex is zero.
But if there was another
view that was two,
the one would be
guaranteed to be below two.
And in cases where they're equal,
their relationship,
their stacking relationship is undefined.
So in many cases, if you just don't have
views that overlap,
you leave the zindex
to everything as zero.
It doesn't matter because
they don't overlap.
Let's talk about how the layout
gets information from the delegate.
We talked about the idea that
the layout gets information from
the delegate in yesterday's talk.
We talked about all these things
that you can specify dynamically in
the layout -- or in your delegate
that the flow layout will use.
And so the way that works is
if this is our set of classes,
we want effectively the layout to
be able to draw this line and go,
"Oh, directly to the collection
view." And that makes it so
that we can have a delegate,
which is the collection view delegate,
but then reuse that delegate for
the purposes of whatever delegation
needs that a given layout has,
like the flow layout uses
this to get dynamic sizing and
other properties for itself.
So how this works is a pattern
that we are putting forth called
basically the extensible delegate.
And it is, in fact,
true that this is a method that
we use in the collection view.
And this is not your
granddaddy's protocol.
And that happens by taking a
concept that we already have,
which is, say,
the UI collection view delegate
extends UI scroll view delegate.
This isn't really a new idea.
UI table view delegate extends UI scroll
view delegate in this way also.
And that way,
your delegate for the collection
view can implement any of the methods
defined in UI scroll view delegate.
So we take this a step further by saying
that UI Collection View Flow Layout
defines its own delegate protocol called
UI Collection View Delegate Flow Layout,
and that protocol extends
UI Collection View Delegate.
So now you can set a delegate
on the Collection View,
which actually implements
UI Collection View Delegate Flow Layout.
And not only can it handle all of
the Collection View delegation,
but it can also handle the
requisite methods for dealing
with dynamism in the Flow Layout.
Now,
since you're all here at the advanced
talk and you're thinking about doing
interesting things with layouts,
you might write layouts that also want
to get information from a delegate.
And we want you to
follow this same pattern.
So you might have your own delegate
protocol and you would extend one of
our delegate protocols with yours.
So if you subclassed
UI Collection View Flow Layout and you
wanted additional information from the
delegate besides what is already there,
you would make a delegate
protocol that extends
UI Collection View Delegate Flow Layout.
Alternatively, if you were writing a
completely custom layout but
you wanted delegate information,
you could define a protocol that
extends UI Collection View Delegate,
and that would be the
protocol that you would use.
So that's the delegation pattern.
Let's look at now how we
change things in a layout.
Some of the demos that
were shown yesterday,
like Cover Flow,
deal with actually changing how
things are laid out after the
collection view is already on screen.
And we have a mechanism for this.
Changing how things are laid out,
which really is changing any of the
layout attributes after your layout has
provided a set of layout attributes,
it might want to say, well,
I changed my mind about some
of those or all of them.
We consider that invalidation.
That's what we call that whole
idea is invalidating the layout.
When you invalidate a layout,
that means start over,
provide new layout attributes,
new layout information for
the collection view to use.
The way to this is a method defined on
the Layout class called invalidateLayout.
Now, we can get to the point where we're
calling this a variety of different ways.
One, if you're the delegate, say,
you're the controller and you
implement the delegate protocol,
and maybe you have some dynamic
sizes that you provide and
size for item and index path,
and you decide you
change your data model,
you want to change those sizes, well,
you can just call invalidate
layout on the layout after you've
changed your internal model,
and that will cause the
layout to rebuild itself,
including accessing your delegate again
so that your new sizes can be applied.
and David You can also do this
if you want to animate by putting
that in a perform batch updates.
Let's say you change your data
model so that your sizes are
going to be different now.
But you don't want to just
snap to those new sizes.
You want the collection
view to animate that.
Well, perform batch updates is a
block-based analog to begin updates
and end updates from UI table view.
And if you call this method,
it will implicitly invalidate the layout.
And whatever changes that you have put
into your model will then get animated.
You could also do this by, like,
in there, in that block,
you could then set a property like
item size on the layout if it's
UI collection view flow layout.
The layout can also call invalidate
layout on itself if it wants to.
Like if you just set the property of item
size on UI collection view flow layout,
well, that means that things should
look different since you
just changed the item size.
And the flow layout will call
self invalidate layout because it
knows that it is now invalidated
and needs to invalidate itself.
We provide one other mechanism which
is a convenience for layouts that want
to define times for themselves when
they need to relay out because of the
bounds of the collection view changing.
Now, there are two main instances
where this applies,
which is one when you're scrolling.
As you scroll up and down or left, right,
whatever it is, that changes the bounds
of your collection view.
And if you're something
like a cover flow,
as you scroll, we want to change those
transforms on the views,
so that's changing the layout attributes.
And we do that by responding to a
method which is should invalidate
layout for bounds change.
If you have a layout like the cover flow,
that every time the bounds
changes for a scroll,
it wants to relay out,
it can return yes to this method and that
gives it an opportunity to relay out.
If you have something
like the flow layout,
the flow layout actually needs
to reflow when the aspect ratio
of the collection view changes,
like when you rotate from
portrait to landscape.
It needs to reflow.
There can be, say,
more columns if you have a
vertically scrolling flow layout.
So flow layout implements this method to
check to see if the width has changed,
say, if you have a vertically
scrolling layout,
and if the width of
the bounds has changed,
it says, yes, I need to invalidate,
and it relays itself
out in response to that.
So that's the underpinnings
of how collection view works.
And now that we're -- we kind
of got that in our stomach,
we can talk about stuff
we can do with it.
And this section on advanced flow
layout is a little bit more complex.
It is pushing you towards the
direction of when you go and
start writing your custom stuff,
I know that you have brilliant ideas,
and I want to direct you
towards first thinking,
does my brilliant idea apply towards
building based off of the flow layout?
And the answer to that question is, well,
it stems from the definition
of the flow layout.
The flow layout is a
line breaking layout.
And if you have any very
specific flow layout,
any variation on a layout that
lays things out on a line and
breaks when it gets to the end,
then that's something you
should start with flow layout.
We showed you yesterday how to tweak
the properties and the delegate
methods on the flow layout delegate
to be able to do cool things.
Today we're going to dive
into a more advanced way of
customizing the flow layout,
which is subclassing,
and we can do even more than that.
And the goal is to get you to
realize just how much you can do
by leveraging the work that we have
already done for you in defining
your collection view flow layout.
And then we'll talk a little
bit later about sort of going
off into the other world.
So what are things you might
subclass the flow layout to do?
Well, you can add new kinds of views.
We saw the decoration view
that was added to this view.
This can really be thought
of as a flow layout.
We have this sort of grid-ish thing,
a flow of lines.
And it's got that shelving
behind it to make it look
like a bookshelf application.
And that's just something you can
do in a subclass of the flow layout.
You use the subclass to
add additional views.
You can also use it to
tweak the layout attributes.
If you want to take the layout
attributes that flow layout provides
by default and change them a bit,
you can do that.
That gets you something like this.
Or whatever it is that
you want to define.
Here we've tweaked the
transform attribute.
You can tweak any of
the attributes you want,
like alpha or whatever it is that
makes sense for your application to
be able to get something super easily.
This is only a couple of lines
of code to modify the transform,
and I've leveraged everything that was
already provided by the flow layout.
Additionally,
you can provide new layout attributes.
One of the features of having this
sort of layout attributes class is
that you can subclass that class,
UI collection view layout attributes,
into some new thing that adds
additional layout attributes themselves.
And you can use that.
We actually shuffle the layout
attribute instances over to cells and
views themselves and then call them.
And then we can actually shuffle the
layout attributes instances over to cells
and views themselves and then call them.
And then we can actually
call a method on them that is
called apply layout attributes.
And that allows you to use the
layout attributes instances as a
means of vectoring data from your
layout all the way to the views
and do special things with that.
So if we look at this view,
this is an extremely basic flow
layout with a couple of columns.
And we see there are little labels
in each of these views that just
tells me what index path they are.
Now, I can subclass the layout attributes
into the layout attributes class,
provide a new instance that provides
some additional attributes that my cells
are programmed to know how to deal with.
And then I can do something like this,
where I have actually moved
the justification of the
text based on which column --
and the layout class was able to know
what column it was laying things out
in and then put an additional layout
attribute into those instances that
the cells could then read and say,
"Oh, okay,
I'm on the left or I'm on the right."
In addition to justification here,
I actually rounded the corners.
So the views on the left
have rounded corners in the
top left and the top right.
Maybe a little hard to see.
I don't know.
And likewise, the views on the right have
rounded corners on the top
right and the bottom right.
So that just gives you a taste
of whatever information you might
want to shuttle from your layout to
your views can be done by putting
that information in a subclass of
UI Collection View Layout Attributes.
So you can also add gesture
support by subclassing.
You can just take a stock
UI Collection View flow layout
and add to it a subclass that
knows how to deal with a gesture.
You saw in the introductory talk,
Olivier had a layout that you
could pinch and move cells around.
Well, you know,
you could have a gesture support directly
in the flow layout without having
to write a completely custom layout.
And you could do something like this,
where you pinch on one,
and then you are able to pinch out and
just change the layout attributes of that
one cell while still using all the other
information from the flow layout class.
So you can also do this to add
custom insert and delete animations.
We saw this yesterday,
which is a layout that, if you recall,
is able to insert by taking
photos in from the center.
This shot is a mid-animation shot of
the center of the photo being inserted
by animating in from the center.
And this layout also would explode
pictures as they animated out.
This isn't a flow layout,
but you can implement the same genre
of strategy simply by subclassing the
flow layout and overriding appropriate
hooks to get custom insert and delete
animations into your application and
just add that bit to the flow layout.
So these are all piecemeal things,
and they can, of course,
be combined together that are
the type of thing you can do
by subclassing the flow layout.
And really, what makes this category of
customization nice is all of these are
just really a couple of lines of code.
You're leveraging all of the work
that UI Collection View Flow Layout
does for you and just adding the
thing that makes your app awesome.
So that's really cool,
and I'd like to invite Mathieu
Martin up at this point to show
us a demo of the code for a pinch
resizing gesture on Flow Layout.
Hello.
There's pretty cool stuff
we can do with FlowLayout,
and I'm going to show you just
how to subclass FlowLayout to add
a small gesture recognizer to it
and have a nice user interaction.
All right.
So here we have a very simple
FlowLayout set up as a grid.
And what Luke was talking about
is we want maybe to add like a
small pin-shaped gesture recognizer
to do something like that.
And it follows my fingers.
You could add also like a
rotation angle if you wanted to,
but here we just had an
offset and a zoom scale on it.
It goes back.
[Transcript missing]
The only very interesting
thing we're going to add to the
layout are those two properties:
pinch cell class and pinch cell center.
So when you override
UI Collection View flow layout
or any layout for that matter,
there's two methods to
implement to override.
The main one is layout attributes
for item at index pass.
That's the main function we're going
to call and that return all the layout
attributes visible in a certain rect.
So basically your visible bounds.
So there was this one, of course.
All right.
So you can see that's the only code
we had to write to subclass and to
extend UI Collection View flow layout.
First thing you want to do is to
grab what the super class is doing.
So you just call super
with the same method.
And then with the information
you have given the flow layout
subclass from your pinch recognizer,
we're going to apply
those values to the cells,
to the cells attribute.
And basically what we are doing
is if you are applying the --
dealing with the pinch cell,
we just apply a transform and
we offset the center here.
So there's a little bit, as I said,
there was two methods
you want to override.
And so the main one is really the
layout attributes for elements in Rect.
But the second one is quite important,
too.
At any given time,
the Collection View can call back
your flow layout or your layout
was asking for information
about a very specific cell,
and we're going to ask you
that for an index pass.
And here...
You need to do the same thing and
apply the same transform in the
same center offset to the cell.
So really,
when you want to add a bit of user
interaction to the flow layout,
for example, you have only a couple of
lines of code to write.
Here, if you see,
the layout subclass is three functions,
three methods,
plus some glue code here at the bottom.
But it's really about 50 lines of
code to add just a pinched organizer.
And of course,
some bit of glue code in the controller.
But nothing you have to hack.
You can really do that
in a very simple fashion.
Maybe we can look a
bit more at the thing.
Any gesture, any cell can be pinched.
And when we fail,
when the gesture recognizer
So when I lift my finger, in this case,
I go back to the regular layout.
But in your delegate code,
you could handle that the way you want.
For example, trigger another action,
maybe changing layout.
Or even with the same
example of flow layout,
saying that this cell should be
the entire width of your view,
for example.
There's a lot of things
you can do with that.
And as Luke said,
before writing your own custom layout,
and if your design fits in
something that's either on the
line or kind of grid-driven,
you should consider subclassing
your collection view flow layout.
Is that it?
All right, thank you so much, Mathieu.
It's really that easy.
I love it.
So we're going to move on to talking
about maybe what some of you have
been dreaming of for the last,
I don't know, 16 hours.
Yeah.
And that's writing
something totally brand new,
amazing us all with your brilliant
idea for the layout that is
going to change the way we
think of user interfaces on iOS.
And the value proposition that we're
bringing here with UI Collection View is
that we've taken all of the performance
lessons that we've learned from
things like building UI Table View,
and we've brought it to
UI Collection View and abstracted
out this idea of defining how
things are laid out in that world.
So when you go write some great layout,
And then you go apply it to code or even,
you know,
hand it off to another engineer,
another team of engineers to say, hey,
take this great layout that I wrote
and apply your data set to it.
And they can go do that
instantly and see the results.
You don't have to spend your time
implementing all of the performance
features and things like cell selection
that you would have to do otherwise
if you started from scratch writing
something like a grid view on iOS 5.
That's five.
I've gotten, you know,
just in the last two days,
I've talked to a lot of developers who
have written grid-type applications,
and they come to me and they say, "Man,
this thing is slow." Well...
There's a good chance, you know,
if you've dealt in Grid worlds,
you're in one of two situations.
Either it's slow, in which case,
introduce UI Collection View.
It's fast.
Or you actually have really
spent a lot of time on your grid
view and your grid view is fast.
Introduce UI Collection View,
now you manage less code.
So either way,
this is the thing for you if
you're writing fantastic layouts.
So the first decision is, okay,
we've talked a lot about FlowLayout.
We've really pushed the advantages
of subclassing FlowLayout in
that by going down that route,
you don't have to write a lot of code.
You get a lot of things for free.
But your layout idea is just
so cool that it completely
jumps the bounds of FlowLayout.
It was not something that mere
mortals like me were able to imagine
when we designed Collection View.
So you're --
Thinking, geez, should I just write a
completely custom layout?
And the decision for
that is really based on,
like,
are you changing all the cell positions
to the point where the flow layout
doesn't make any sense for you anymore?
You're just not buying anything from it?
And you have something that just
doesn't look anything like a grid.
Maybe you have something
that looks like this.
You know?
That bears no resemblance to flow layout.
And so if you're doing that, okay.
It's time for you to write
a fully custom layout.
And the good news is,
even though you're sort of declaring
yourself God and writing everything,
The API is quite simple.
And that's the other advantage of
UI CollectionView is we've defined
a very succinct set of methods and a
framework for thinking about defining
layout information in addition to
handling the work of performance and
enabling cell selection capability and
things like that so that you can focus
your creative energies on building
the best definition of a layout.
And we have the framework for
you to define that layout.
So if you're in this world,
you are going to subclass an
abstract class that we are shipping
called UI CollectionView layout.
This is a superclass of
UI CollectionView flow layout.
And as an abstract class,
there are a handful of
methods that you're required
to override when you do this.
So we'll talk about those now.
Number one,
UI CollectionView content size
or CollectionView content size.
This is where you tell us
what is the user scrollable
area in the CollectionView,
the area in which you are going to
layout content so we know how to set
the content size and where you might
put content within this CollectionView.
Number two,
you need to give us layout attributes
for elements in a given rectangle.
This is going to be the meet method.
This is, I dare say,
the single most important method
on UI Collection View layout.
It is the thing that we're
going to call when we bootstrap
up the Collection View to
ask how to lay things out.
And here you're going to
provide us an NSArray of
UI Collection View layout attributes.
We will take those attributes,
which define how to lay things out,
and go apply them to views.
Additionally,
as Mathieu mentioned before,
we will from time to time require
direct access to the layout
attributes for a given item.
So you're required to implement layout
attributes for item at index path.
This is sort of the, you know,
quick way instead of going through
layout attributes for elements in Rect.
Additionally, we have direct accessors
for supplementary views
and for decoration views.
So if you support supplementary views
or you support decoration views,
you're also required to implement
these direct accessors as appropriate.
Let's talk about the order of operations
in which UI Collection View will
call these things.
We're going to start by
calling prepareLayout.
This is an optional method.
It's not one of the required ones.
But this is the opportunity
for your layout to do upfront
calculations regarding however
you're going to lay things out.
And, for example,
the circle layout that we saw
in the previous session's demo
Prepare a layout that might
figure out how many cells,
how many elements are in that circle
and determine based on that what
the radius offset it's going to
use for each item and it can use
that radius offset in computing
individual item attributes later.
Or a layout might compute
everything about itself.
It might store off layout attributes
in a dictionary or an array somewhere.
So this can be whatever you want,
as much upfront calculation as you want.
Or it can be as lazy as you want.
You can choose to ignore this method
and do all of your calculations
later when we ask you for layout
attributes for elements in Rect.
Next thing we're going to call
is Collection View Content Size.
We need to -- after you're prepared,
we need you to tell us, hey,
what's the area in which
you're going to lay stuff out?
After we have that area,
we set the content size
of the collection view,
and we will call that
most important of methods,
layout attributes for elements in Rect.
This is when, okay, it's time,
we're going to display
stuff on the screen,
we need to know where to put it.
And, in fact, what stuff is on screen.
So we're going to pass you a Rect that
will at least cover the current screen.
And you need to tell us what's in
that Rect and how to lay it out.
Pass this layout attribute instances.
At this point, from this point,
our layout is considered
effectively live,
if you will.
And we can call any of the other
methods that are defined on
UI Collection View attributes,
depending on what happens in the
flow of interaction and what is
necessary for the given time.
Until we hit at some point,
the layout gets invalidated.
This happens for any of the
reasons we talked about before.
The controller calls invalidateLayout,
the layout calls
invalidateLayout on itself.
Whatever reason it gets invalidated,
we call invalidateLayout.
And that means start over.
So after that point,
we go back to the beginning.
We'll call prepareLayout
on your layout again.
It'll give you a chance to redo any of
those calculations that you threw out in
invalidateLayout because you won't need
anything again after invalidateLayout.
And the cycle continues.
We start over.
We do that same thing again.
Just a few methods.
And it's really just within
this very simple framework.
that you can provide to us layout
attributes for whatever you might need,
defined in whatever way
makes sense for you,
provides a nice simple way of
separating definition of a layout
from all the other great features
that are supplied by Collection View.
And also makes it so that you
can define a layout and ship it
to somebody else who is creating
content and creating a controller
and a delegate and all that such.
So that's just how simple it is.
At this point, I would like to invite Dr.
Olivier Gutknecht on stage to show
us a demo of how all this works.
Only two layouts.
Yeah, yesterday I maybe did 42
layouts in five minutes.
I'm going to be nice and quiet.
You know these iOS apps showing
some kind of document browser?
So you have this line of documents and
the thing at the center is a small zoom,
scaled up?
We need to do that.
So it's a Collection View Flow layout.
And what I did here is just set up
an in-time size in my subclass and
change my scroll direction so that's
actually a horizontal scrolling layout.
And in that case,
it's just a very simple flow layout.
Next thing I'm going to do is to
adjust parameters on that flow layout
so I'm going to get only one line.
So that should be, yes, much better.
So now, I need this scaling effect.
How do I do that?
I'm going to use the exact same
technique and actually reuse
Well, the flow layout is going to define.
And for that layout, what I want to do is
Just grab the cell at the center of the
screen and just tweak its attributes.
So what I'm doing here
is I check the actual
Collection view bound size
and its content offset.
And I have this very boring mathematical
stuff which just tries to find what
is in this current attribute which
is the thing closest to the center.
And then the only thing I need to do is
to apply a zoom based on the distance for
that cell which is closest to the center.
So.
Let's try that.
Oh, that was better.
Actually, no.
The thing I need to do now
is when I scroll my layout,
when I scroll my collection view,
I actually need to update the attributes
for the cell each time I scroll,
right?
So one thing I could do is to
call invalidateLayout a lot or
I can use this "Should invalidate
layout" for bounds change.
And in that case,
Collection View is going
to invalidate that for me.
So I basically have what I need here.
Okay, maybe the one thing missing,
if you want to nitpick, is...
You remember my
CoverFlow-like demo yesterday?
I had this nice snapping
behavior for the cell,
so it would be perfectly centered.
So I'm going to add that.
[Transcript missing]
So that method is a way to
scroll a view that is our
superclass in Collection View,
is going to communicate with the layout.
So we actually ask,
the Collection View asks
the layout to compute that
Target offset when we scroll.
And the way we do that is...
[Transcript missing]
We're going to iterate in the
destination rack for the scroll.
We're going to find what cell,
actually what layout attributes is
the actual closest one to the center.
And in that case, we just slightly tweak
The offset for that cell.
And that value is going to be used
by the scroll view to actually
adapt to target content offsets.
So, okay, what do we have here?
One method.
Two methods.
Three, four in it.
So with that amount of code,
you can implement this very popular
scaling effect in your line layout.
That was a technique which is
not tied to Flow Layout at all.
You can use that for any
of your custom layouts.
So, let's check a custom layout now.
You might remember this one.
So that is definitely
not a line-based layout.
So we set up in this one the
layout attributes all self,
and I also added -- couldn't
resist -- a small animation for
appearing and disappearing cells.
So how do you do that?
Let me just show you the actual
view controller because we
don't really have magic here.
I just want to prove that.
So I set up a gesture recognizer
on my collection view.
I registered the CEL class,
as we learned yesterday,
and I set up a nice background color.
And I think I have the most stupid
data source implementation ever.
I just need a cell count.
So I need 60 items.
Okay.
And my cell,
because I don't have any content in that,
I just dequeue and return my cell.
Then,
This tapping gesture,
I'm using here a few things that
Collection View can do for you.
One thing is you can
ask the Collection View
What index path is at
a point in the view?
So I just get the index
path for the cell I tapped.
And if I tap that cell,
I want that cell to go away.
So my extremely stupid implementation
of a data source is just going
to decrement that cell count.
And I'm going to remove in my collection
view an item for that index pass.
So if you used table view before,
it's basically the same thing.
It's block-based,
but the exact same mechanism
we were using with table views.
And because I'm doing that
with this block-based method,
it's just going to animate things.
And if I didn't tap on a cell, well,
in that case,
that index pass returned by the
collection view is going to be nil.
So I just decided that when
I tap in the background,
I just want to add a new cell.
So that's my logic.
That was quite simple.
Now, what about the layout itself?
So that's a
UI Collection View Layout subclass.
I just need a few things.
The radius for my circle,
where that thing is on screen.
And I'm going to track a
cell count in this layout.
And you'll see why.
So, my two really important methods here,
the one that we call when
we set up a custom layout.
First, prepare layout.
This is where we are...
If you want to set up some
initial attributes or compute
a few things ahead of time,
PreparLayout is the place to do that.
And because that is a
really simple layout,
and because I'm lazy,
that layout only supports one section.
And I'm implementing that by
asking the Collection View how
many items do we want to layout.
So that line is basically my
configuration for my layout
at a given point of time.
Then, my two other parameters is where
should I display that circle and
radius for that circle layout.
And again, that's a very simple layout,
and I don't want to scroll or anything,
so the Collection View Content Size I'm
using actually is going to be just
a frame of my Collection View,
so that's really full screen,
no scrolling layout.
And I'm using that to set up my
center for that layout and the radius.
And I'm ready to actually
generate layout attributes now.
So that's our next method.
So Luke said that when you're
implementing a custom layout,
you have two methods that
you really need to implement.
Layout for index pass and layout
attributes for item at index pass
and layout attributes for rect.
And that layout attributes
for item at index pass
It's usually where you actually
instantiate a layout attribute.
So that line is just us constructing
a layout of UI Collection View layout
attributes for an index pass.
So you have this method,
layout attributes for
cells with index pass.
We have the same thing for supplemental
reviews and decoration views.
And the next step is just to
decide what you want to do
with that layout attributes.
So we just want to set up
the size for that cell.
And the center part,
where should we actually position that?
So mathematics again.
And we're just using our cell count
we prepared in the PreparLayout
phase to actually decide where each
of these cells should be based on,
basically.
[Transcript missing]
What's happening here?
Collection view needs layout
for a given index pass.
Scrolling the layout
with that index pass,
we compute the exact position
for anything that should
be at that index pass.
And these index pass are basically
what are in your data source.
And then we return the attributes.
So for my circle layout,
that was quite a simple implementation.
We have a perfectly mathematical layout.
For things more complicated
like my map example yesterday,
you could generate that before in
prepareLayout and just return a given
layout attribute in this method.
We have a lot of
different strategies here.
And the next method I actually
need to implement is layout
attributes for elements in React.
And again, that is a very simple layout,
because I want to display
every single cell here.
So that implementation is just iterating
On the cell count,
we are building an index
pass for that item.
And then we need to generate
for each of these index paths
UI Collection View Layout attributes.
And the good thing is
We did that already.
So I'm just reusing this layout
attributes for item at index
pass above to create that
UI Collection View layout attributes.
That implementation is very simple.
So, UI Collection View is not magic.
Not completely.
So,
when you want to build your own layout,
You won't -- probably you
won't be in that situation.
You won't want to actually display
every single item in your data set.
That is going to be quite
high performance cost.
So when you have things like a stack
layout that Luke had on the slide
before or in my demo yesterday,
you want to optimize that.
You want to display a few cells,
and after that,
just cheat and not generate
layout attributes for every
single item in your data set.
But with this form method,
We have a perfectly fine custom layout.
And now we can add some fancy stuff like
these custom animations for inserting
and deleting items in my data set.
And that's quite easy, actually.
So you just have to override one method,
which is
initial layout attributes for
inserted item at index pass.
We absolutely love
extremely long method names.
And how do I do that?
Well, initial layout attributes is going
to be the starting point for a cell
that I want to insert in my layout.
So if we get back to this
Animation.
What's happening here?
So layout itself is going
to reconfigure itself.
And that is just calling -- that
is just a collection view calling
layout attributes for items in React.
And for this cell animation,
what we actually do
here is really simple.
We just want that cell to start
at the center and with alpha 0.
So
I just reuse again my layout
attributes for item at index
path method and I just tweak.
It's a bit technical like what we
did with subclassing for layout,
just reusing layout
attributes and tweaking that.
And I just change the
opacity and the center.
And what Collection View is going to do,
it's going to compute its final
official position in the circle and then
compute that initial layout attribute.
And we're going to animate from that
initial state to that official state.
And building this animation for the
disappearing cell is actually quite easy,
too.
And in this case, if you remember,
is when I actually tap a cell here.
What I'm doing is, again,
reusing the same technique of
grabbing the existing layout
attributes for that index pass and
I'm switching the opacity to zero.
I'm again changing the
position to be at the center.
So I'm setting the center of the
cell to be the center of my layout.
And the only additional tweak
is this shrinking effect,
which is just a small
CA transform 3D scale.
So it's just a scaling transform.
So with these two methods,
just a few lines of code,
I have custom animation for
ourselves going in and going out.
And then to wrap this up,
I'd like to bring back Luke on stage.
Thank you.
I really hope you guys are as excited as
we are about the possibilities that are
being enabled by UI Collection View and
really by your creativity,
which is now going to be unleashed
by how much easier it is to define
a user interface that is highly
performant and has built-in features
like selection and such on the cells.
So to review the ideas that we
really want to take away from this,
remember just how powerful
UI Collection View flow layout is.
When you go out and start
thinking about cool new things,
remember that it's powerful.
It's got a lot of bells and
whistles that you can tweak in
the delegate and its properties
that we talked about yesterday.
But it's also a subclassable entity
that you can add your own ideas onto
based on the framework that we have.
have already built for you.
And then, moreover,
the fact that UI Collection View enables
you to build completely custom
layouts and define that layout
code separate from all the performance
optimizations and features that
we have built into Collection View.
So, taking that framework,
taking the work that we have done for
you into building great user interfaces
is something that I hope you'll enjoy.
And I know I am incredibly looking
forward to coming back a year
from now and seeing what all
the just spectacular interfaces
you guys have come out with are.
So, thank you very much for coming and
learning about Collection View.
If you have more questions,
direct them to Jake Behrens.
He's our UI Frameworks Evangelist.
We have another intro session tomorrow.